Document StatefulShortestPath(All) and StatefulShortestPath(Into) (#1)
JPryce-Aklundh/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/patterns/shortest-paths.adoc

2+d|Rows: 1
|===

> 
> == Planning shortest paths queries
> This section describes the operators used when planning shortest path queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

== Planning shortest paths queries

This section describes the operators used when planning shortest path queries.
```

> This section describes the operators used when planning shortest paths queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

== Planning shortest paths queries

This section describes the operators used when planning shortest paths queries.
```

> This section describes the operators used when planning shortest paths queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes the operators used when planning shortest path queries.
```

There are two operators used to plan `SHORTEST` queries:

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-all[`StatefulShortestPath(All)`] - uses a unidirectional breadth-first search algorithm to find shortest paths from a previously matched start node to an end node that has not yet been matched.

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[`StatefulShortestPath(Into)`] - uses a bidirectional breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm, where two simultaneous BFS invocations are performed, one from the left boundary node and one from the right boundary node.

`StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is used by the planner when both boundary nodes in the shortest path have been matched in a `MATCH` clause previous to that containing the `SHORTEST` keyword.
It is also used when both boundary nodes match at most one node each.
Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is used.

For example, the left boundary node in the below query matches 9 nodes, and the right boundary node matches 3 nodes.

> Using `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` requires 27 bidirectional breath-first search (BFS) invocations, while `StatefulShortestPath(All)` requires only 3 unidirectional BFS invocations expanding from the right boundary node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` requires 27 bidirectional breadth-first search (BFS) invocations, while `StatefulShortestPath(All)` requires only 3 unidirectional BFS invocations expanding from the right boundary node.
```

| +Filter                    |  3 | b.name IN [$autostring_0, $autostring_1, $autostring_2]                                 |              1 |    3 |      18 |              0 |                        |           |                     |
| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+                        |           |                     |
| +NodeByLabelScan           |  4 | b:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    3/0 |     2.487 | Fused in Pipeline 0 |
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
----

However, the heuristic decision to favor `StatefulShortestPath(All)` can lead to worse query performance.

> To have the planner choose the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, rewrite the query using a xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc[`CALL` subquery].
> This is because the `CALL` subquery is executed for each incoming row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have the planner choose the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, rewrite the query using a xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc[`CALL` subquery], which is executed for each incoming row.
```

2+d|Rows: 1
|===

== Planning shortest paths queries

This section describes the operators used when planning shortest path queries.
For readers not familiar with Cypher execution plans and operators, it is recommended to first read the section xref:planning-and-tuning/execution-plans.adoc[].

There are two operators used to plan `SHORTEST` queries:

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-all[`StatefulShortestPath(All)`] - uses a unidirectional breadth-first search algorithm to find shortest paths from a previously matched start node to an end node that has not yet been matched.

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[`StatefulShortestPath(Into)`] - uses a bidirectional breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm, where two simultaneous BFS invocations are performed, one from the left boundary node and one from the right boundary node.

> `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is used by the planner when both boundary nodes in the shortest path have been matched in a `MATCH` clause previous to that containing the `SHORTEST` keyword.

Reviewer 2: The wording makes this seem to be a plan that is decided at runtime, rather than based on cardinality estimates. For example, on the UK railway dataset I get only one node matching each end node pattern, but it is still planned as `StatefulShortestPath(All)`:
```
PROFILE
MATCH (n:Station {name: "Denmark Hill"}), (m:Station WHERE m.name CONTAINS "Vic")
MATCH p = SHORTEST 1 (n)((l)-[e:LINK]-(r) WHERE e.distance < 10){,5}(m)
RETURN p
```

> `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is used by the planner when both boundary nodes in the shortest path have been matched in a `MATCH` clause previous to that containing the `SHORTEST` keyword.

Author: Good point. Let me look into this

| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+                        |           |                     |
| +NodeByLabelScan           |  4 | b:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    3/0 |     2.487 | Fused in Pipeline 0 |
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
----

However, the heuristic decision to favor `StatefulShortestPath(All)` can lead to worse query performance.
To have the planner choose the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, rewrite the query using a xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc[`CALL` subquery].
This is because the `CALL` subquery is executed for each incoming row.

> Thus, in the below query, both `a` and `b` are matched to exactly one `Station` node respectively which enables the planner to use `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`.

Reviewer 2: It would be worth clarifying that for each invocation of the subquery `CALL`, the planner knows that `a` and `b` will be bound to one `Station` node each, and thus the planner uses `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`.

Author: I have suggested a change in Jens his PR when this one is merged in

Reviewer 2: This is addressed in [863](https://github.com/neo4j/docs-cypher/pull/863)

2+d|Rows: 1
|===

[[planning-StatefulShortestPath-operator]]
== Planning the StatefulShortestPath-operator

> See xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[the operator-detail page] for a description of the `StatefulShortestPath(All)` and `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` operators.

Reviewer 3: I would still add one sentence about the algorithms here and then point to the link for further details:

```
The `StatefulShortestPath(All)` uses a unidirectional breadth first search algorithm, while the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` uses a bidirectional breadth first search algorithm.
```

When the subexpression of the statefulShortestPath-operator matches only one of both boundary nodes, then a `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is planned.

When the subexpression of the statefulShortestPath-operator matches both boundary nodes, then a `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned only when both boundary nodes match to at most one data node. Otherwise, this plan is avoided when possible.

> Another plan will be favoured where the subexpression matches only one of both boundary nodes followed by an `StatefulShortestPath(All)`.

Reviewer 3: I find these paragraphs confusing. 

```
When the subexpression of the statefulShortestPath-operator matches only one of both boundary nodes
```

When would that happen?
What is "the subexpression of the statefulShortestPath-operator"?

---

I would phrase it along these lines:

```
The planner decides between the two variants using this heuristic:

* When both boundary nodes having been matched in a `MATCH` clause prior to the `MATCH` clause containing the shortest paths query, `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.
* Otherwise, if both boundary nodes match to at most one data node, `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.
* Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is planned.

Sometimes the planner cannot make reliable estimations about how many data nodes a patern nodes will match. Consider using a uniqueness constraint <insert link there> where applicable to help the planner getting more reliable estimates.
```

As an example, consider the case where the left boundary node matches to 10 data nodes and the right boundary node to 3 data nodes.
Using `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` requires 30 bidirectional breath first search (BFS) invocations.
Using `StatefulShortestPath(All)` requires only 3 unidirectional BFS invocations expanding from the right boundary node.

> In case you want the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` to be chosen, then you can rewrite your query using a `CALL subquery`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes this heuristic decision to favour `StatefulShortestPath(All)` can lead to worse query performance.
In case you want the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` to be chosen, then you can rewrite your query using a `CALL` subquery.
```

| |                          |    |         expanding from: a                                                               |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
| |                          |    |     inlined predicates: b:Station                                                       |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +NodeByLabelScan           |  3 | a:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    1/0 |     1.106 | In Pipeline 0 |
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
----

> Rewriting the query using a `CALL subquery`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rewriting the query using a `CALL` subquery
```

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH
  (a:Station),
  (b:Station)
CALL {
  WITH a, b
  MATCH
    p = ALL SHORTEST (a)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(b)
  RETURN p
}
RETURN p
----

> makes use of `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, because the CALL subroutine is executed for each incoming row.  Each incoming row matches `a` to exactly one station node and `b` to exactly one station node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
makes use of `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, because the `CALL` subquery is executed for each incoming row.  Each incoming row matches `a` to exactly one station node and `b` to exactly one station node.
```

2+d|Rows: 1
|===

[[planning-StatefulShortestPath-operator]]
== Planning the StatefulShortestPath-operator
The `StatefulShortestPath(All)` uses a unidirectional breadth first search algorithm, while the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` uses a bidirectional breadth first search algorithm.

> See xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[the operator-detail page] for a description of the `StatefulShortestPath(All)` and `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Planning shortest paths queries
This section describes the operators used when planning shortest paths queries.
For readers not familiar with Cypher execution plans and operators, it is recommended to first read the section xref:planning-and-tuning/execution-plans.adoc[].

There are two operators used to plan `SHORTEST` queries:

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-all[`StatefulShortestPath(All)`] - uses a unidirectional breadth-first search algorithm to find shortest paths from a previously matched start node to an end node that has not yet been matched.

* xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[`StatefulShortestPath(Into)`] - uses a bidirectional breadth-first search algorithm (BFS) algorithm, where two simultaneous BFS invocations are performed, one from the left boundary node and one from the right boundary node, until a pattern is found.
```

The planner decides between the two variants using this heuristic:

* When both boundary nodes have been matched in a `MATCH` clause prior to the `MATCH` clause containing the shortest paths query, `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.
* Otherwise, if both boundary nodes match to at most one data node, then `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.

> * Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is planned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is used by the planner when both boundary nodes in the shortest path have been matched in a `MATCH` clause previous to that containing the `SHORTEST` keyword.
It is also used when both boundary nodes match at most one node each.
Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is used.
```

Sometimes the planner cannot make reliable estimations about how many data nodes a pattern node will match.

> Consider using a xref:constraints/index.adoc#unique-node-property[uniqueness constraint] where applicable to help the planner getting more reliable estimates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> As an example, consider the case where the left boundary node matches to 10 data nodes and the right boundary node to 3 data nodes.
> Using `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` requires 30 bidirectional breath first search (BFS) invocations.
> Using `StatefulShortestPath(All)` requires only 3 unidirectional BFS invocations expanding from the right boundary node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the left boundary node in the below query matches 10 nodes, and the right boundary node matches 3 nodes.
Using `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` requires 30 bidirectional breath-first search (BFS) invocations, while `StatefulShortestPath(All)` requires only 3 unidirectional BFS invocations expanding from the right boundary node.
As a result, the query will use `StatefulShortestPath(All)`.

.Query planned with `StatefulShortestPath(All)`
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH
  p = ALL SHORTEST (a:Station)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(b:Station)
RETURN p
----

.Result
[role="queryplan", subs="attributes+"]
----
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| Operator                   | Id | Details                                                                                 | Estimated Rows | Rows | DB Hits | Memory (Bytes) | Page Cache Hits/Misses | Time (ms) | Pipeline      |
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +ProduceResults            |  0 | p                                                                                       |            383 |  154 |       0 |              0 |                    0/0 |     0.158 |               |
| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
| +Projection                |  1 | (a) ((anon_12)-[anon_14]-(anon_13)-[anon_11]-())* (b) AS p                              |            383 |  154 |       0 |                |                    0/0 |     2.785 |               |
| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
| +StatefulShortestPath(All) |  2 | SHORTEST 1 GROUPS (a) ((`anon_5`)-[`anon_6`]-(`anon_7`)-[`anon_8`]-(`anon_9`)){1, } (b) |            383 |  154 |     655 |          19711 |                    1/0 |    70.908 | In Pipeline 1 |
| |                          |    |         expanding from: a                                                               |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
| |                          |    |     inlined predicates: b:Station                                                       |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
| |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +NodeByLabelScan           |  3 | a:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    1/0 |     1.106 | In Pipeline 0 |
+----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
----

```

> This heuristic decision to favour `StatefulShortestPath(All)` can sometimes lead to worse query performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the heuristic decision to favor `StatefulShortestPath(All)` can lead to worse query performance.
To have the planner choose the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, rewrite the query using a xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc[`CALL` subquery].
This is because the `CALL` subquery is executed for each incoming row.
Thus, in the below query, both `a` and `b` are matched to exactly one `Station` node respectively which enables the planner to use `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`.

.Query rewritten to use `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH
  (a:Station),
  (b:Station)
CALL {
  WITH a, b
  MATCH
    p = ALL SHORTEST (a)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(b)
  RETURN p
}
RETURN p
----

.Result
role="queryplan", subs="attributes+"]
----
+-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| Operator                    | Id | Details                                                                                 | Estimated Rows | Rows | DB Hits | Memory (Bytes) | Page Cache Hits/Misses | Time (ms) | Pipeline      |
+-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +ProduceResults             |  0 | p                                                                                       |            383 |  154 |       0 |              0 |                    0/0 |     0.166 |               |
| |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
| +Projection                 |  1 | (a) ((anon_12)-[anon_14]-(anon_13)-[anon_11]-())* (b) AS p                              |            383 |  154 |       0 |                |                    0/0 |     2.605 |               |
| |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
| +StatefulShortestPath(Into) |  2 | SHORTEST 1 GROUPS (a) ((`anon_5`)-[`anon_6`]-(`anon_7`)-[`anon_8`]-(`anon_9`)){1, } (b) |            383 |  154 |    1517 |          24486 |                    1/0 |    76.973 | In Pipeline 3 |
| |                           |    |         expanding from: a                                                               |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
| |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +CartesianProduct           |  3 |                                                                                         |            100 |   81 |       0 |           2056 |                    0/0 |     1.352 | In Pipeline 2 |
| |\                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| | +NodeByLabelScan          |  4 | b:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            392 |                    1/0 |     0.229 | In Pipeline 1 |
| |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
| +NodeByLabelScan            |  5 | a:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    1/0 |     1.224 | In Pipeline 0 |
+-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
----
```

In case you want the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` to be chosen, you can rewrite your query using a `CALL subquery`.

For example, this query
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH

>   p = ALL SHORTEST (a:Station)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(b:Station)
> RETURN p
> ----
> 
> will use `StatefulShortestPath(All)`
> [role="queryplan", subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> +----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | Operator                   | Id | Details                                                                                 | Estimated Rows | Rows | DB Hits | Memory (Bytes) | Page Cache Hits/Misses | Time (ms) | Pipeline      |
> +----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | +ProduceResults            |  0 | p                                                                                       |            383 |  154 |       0 |              0 |                    0/0 |     0.158 |               |
> | |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
> | +Projection                |  1 | (a) ((anon_12)-[anon_14]-(anon_13)-[anon_11]-())* (b) AS p                              |            383 |  154 |       0 |                |                    0/0 |     2.785 |               |
> | |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
> | +StatefulShortestPath(All) |  2 | SHORTEST 1 GROUPS (a) ((`anon_5`)-[`anon_6`]-(`anon_7`)-[`anon_8`]-(`anon_9`)){1, } (b) |            383 |  154 |     655 |          19711 |                    1/0 |    70.908 | In Pipeline 1 |
> | |                          |    |         expanding from: a                                                               |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
> | |                          |    |     inlined predicates: b:Station                                                       |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
> | |                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | +NodeByLabelScan           |  3 | a:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    1/0 |     1.106 | In Pipeline 0 |
> +----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> ----
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Rewriting the query using a `CALL` subquery
> [source,cypher]
> ----
> MATCH
>   (a:Station),
>   (b:Station)
> CALL {
>   WITH a, b
>   MATCH
>     p = ALL SHORTEST (a)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(b)
>   RETURN p
> }
> RETURN p
> ----
> 
> makes use of `StatefulShortestPath(Into)`, because the CALL subquery is executed for each incoming row. Each incoming row matches `a` to exactly one station node and `b` to exactly one station node.
> [role="queryplan", subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> +-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | Operator                    | Id | Details                                                                                 | Estimated Rows | Rows | DB Hits | Memory (Bytes) | Page Cache Hits/Misses | Time (ms) | Pipeline      |
> +-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | +ProduceResults             |  0 | p                                                                                       |            383 |  154 |       0 |              0 |                    0/0 |     0.166 |               |
> | |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
> | +Projection                 |  1 | (a) ((anon_12)-[anon_14]-(anon_13)-[anon_11]-())* (b) AS p                              |            383 |  154 |       0 |                |                    0/0 |     2.605 |               |
> | |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+               |
> | +StatefulShortestPath(Into) |  2 | SHORTEST 1 GROUPS (a) ((`anon_5`)-[`anon_6`]-(`anon_7`)-[`anon_8`]-(`anon_9`)){1, } (b) |            383 |  154 |    1517 |          24486 |                    1/0 |    76.973 | In Pipeline 3 |
> | |                           |    |         expanding from: a                                                               |                |      |         |                |                        |           |               |
> | |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | +CartesianProduct           |  3 |                                                                                         |            100 |   81 |       0 |           2056 |                    0/0 |     1.352 | In Pipeline 2 |
> | |\                          +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | | +NodeByLabelScan          |  4 | b:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            392 |                    1/0 |     0.229 | In Pipeline 1 |
> | |                           +----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> | +NodeByLabelScan            |  5 | a:Station                                                                               |             10 |    9 |      10 |            376 |                    1/0 |     1.224 | In Pipeline 0 |
> +-----------------------------+----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------+
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
Sometimes the planner cannot make reliable estimations about how many nodes a pattern node will match.
Consider using a xref:constraints/index.adoc#unique-node-property[uniqueness constraint] where applicable to help the planner get more reliable estimates.
```

[[planning-StatefulShortestPath-operator]]
== Planning the StatefulShortestPath-operator
The `StatefulShortestPath(All)` uses a unidirectional breadth first search algorithm, while the `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` uses a bidirectional breadth first search algorithm.
See xref:planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc#query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into[the operator-detail page] for a description of the `StatefulShortestPath(All)` and `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` operators.

The planner decides between the two variants using this heuristic:

> * When both boundary nodes have been matched in `MATCH` clause prior to the `MATCH` clause containing the shortest paths query, `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When both boundary nodes have been matched in a `MATCH` clause prior to the `MATCH` clause containing the shortest paths query, `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.
```

> * Otherwise, if both boundary nodes match to at most one data node, then `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned
> * Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is planned

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Otherwise, if both boundary nodes match to at most one data node, then `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` is planned.
* Otherwise, `StatefulShortestPath(All)` is planned.
```

> Sometimes the planner cannot make reliable estimations about how many data nodes a pattern nodes will match.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes the planner cannot make reliable estimations about how many data nodes a pattern node will match.
```
